Okay, the tape is going. First, all I wanted to know was how you first got
involved with the fantasy field. Did you read it as a girl, an adolescent, and
grow up with it? How did you get involved with it? Well, not really. I started
reading it in my early 20s. I had read science fiction when I was younger. But I
discovered fantasy when I was about 23 or 24. And I connected with it more
strongly than I had with science fiction. and I've been interested in fantasy
almost exclusively since as far as as far as genre fiction is concerned I don't
read any science fiction anymore okay in other words you didn't you just didn't
grow up reading reading the pulps the magazines then I never I never liked the
pulps particularly I liked fairy tales when I was quite little but somehow I
never thought of them as being suitable for me as a teenage reader or as an
adult reader. It took me a long time to connect and see that fantasy was really
suited for adults, as well. I think a lot of people feel that way about fantasy.
They start reading science fiction perhaps partly because it seems more adult
than fantasy. I don't think that's at all true. Fantasy has a stronger symbolic
meaning for it. Science fiction, in a lot of ways, is a lot more simplistic in
its worldviews. It's a feeling around for symbols that don't have an ancient
heritage, or an ancient long existence in our subconscious and our culture.
Okay, what about the writing part of it? How did you get involved in that? Well,
I started writing science fiction as well, like when I was about 13. Got my
first little rejection letter, a pleasant little letter from John Campbell,
telling me I misspelled one of the words in my title with a one-word title. I
was so embarrassed that I never submitted him anything else. That, again, it was
many years before I ceased to write science fiction stories, started writing
fantasy instead. Although I'd also written horror stories simultaneously. and
some of those actually have turned out to be publishable, ones that I wrote when
I was a teenager. The science fiction all garbage that I wrote when I was a
teenager. My major writing is I think it's all been fantasy. Yeah, I have to
confess that I haven't been able to find much background on your, you know,
except for the works you published on much else. Have you published any science
fiction at all? No. Everything I've published has been fantasy, and with a good
deal of horror stories thrown in which could be considered dark fantasy. Now you
have some involvement with a fanzine, don't you? No, I don't. I used to publish
a fanzine about feminist fantasy and science fiction, but I haven't done that
for a long time. There's been no time for things like that. And I did a little
newsletter about women warriors to this kind of an interest of mine. But I
haven't had time to do that lately either because I have to make a living from
my writing. Okay, what was that reference I saw? I think it was in Amazon's,
too, to fantasy and terror. Oh, that was something I... That's probably how I
entered the professional field, although that wasn't a professional magazine. I
think it was a nice magazine. I started publishing it not really knowing what
fandom was. I was involved with literary magazines and, you know, university
little magazines, and I thought it would be real interesting to do something
like that. That was all fantasy stories and horror stories. So I got to, I found
some people that wrote those sorts of things, and I started doing this magazine.
And, like, after I got one issue out, I started getting magazines just like it
from 100 other editors. I was really surprised to find out it wasn't her
original idea at all, that they were usually called Fancy. I did that until
about 1975. From 1972 to 1975, I did seven issues.
Before I quit doing it, I think it had developed into a rather pleasant magazine
as professional as you could be without having any real distribution or backing.
but I just got tired of doing it it stopped okay what about another one I saw a
reference to I'm not sure what this is Windhaven that was the feminist fantasy
and science fiction magazine that I started doing after I got tired of doing
fantasy and terror I guess I was just really interested in small press projects
I'm not quite sure why I still write for some small presses I like the energy
that small press publishers have, but of course you can't break even on it. You
can't make money on it. It usually costs more money. You can only do it for as
long as you feel this personal involvement, and after a while you just get
overwhelmed and tired and you stop doing it. But that did give me some
background for when I contracted my first professional anthology, the publisher
was already aware of who I was and what I was capable of doing which was a
surprise to me because I'd never sent him copies of my magazine he knew all
about them and thought they were good magazines so they gave me a professional
contract my first break into actually making a living as a writer and editor and
that's what you're doing now you can make your living at it yep one of the small
percentage doesn't have to do anything else Okay, that must be great. Listen,
let me go on for just a little bit. Well, right before I get to some of your
work, reading the little headpieces you had in Amazons 2 to some of those
stories, there was one that intrigued me. You said that many modern authors are
weak and lazy in their research for heroic fantasy. I got the impression you
were implying that a heroic fantasy should be somehow based upon a, I don't
know, familiar environment, say an ancient Anglo-Saxon, medieval kind of
background. Is that what you meant? No, that's really not what I meant at all. I
think most heroic fantasy is based on something really familiar, and really
Anglo-Saxon and European, but they don't even, the writers of this sort of
fiction don't even research that. They just take a very superficial gleaning
from what we all have in our consciousness about what it must have been like,
and they try to invent from there. And what they end up inventing is something
that is tremendously superficial, almost comic book-like, rather than literary.
Whereas, if they were to do a lot of reading in historical writing, they would
find out that the ancient world is a lot more complex and a lot more interesting
than their very facile fantasies about some Anglo-Europe that they never
researched. I kind of would like to see more fantasy stories that weren't Anglo
at all. And much of my major work is that in a vaguely Asian world, but it
wouldn't even have to be that. Something that was truly complex and different
from our own world would be very interesting. But usually, no matter how people
try, they come up with things that sound Anglo-Europe. And I think it's their
essential laziness. They write fantasies because they think they can make
everything up without having to read anything else first. So they end up writing
silly things. You wouldn't be saying, though, that it wouldn't be possible to
write heroic fantasy which has no kind of roots whatsoever? I think it would be
very possible. I can't think of an example where it's been done. Okay. I think
I'm saying this right now. Tomoe goes in? That's right. Okay. I have to confess
I know nothing about Japanese history or legend, but I assume that it is based
on actual history and legend. Would that be correct? That's pretty correct. The
world that Tomoe lives in is called Naipone. and it's very strongly based on
Japanese myth and Japanese history, but if anybody reads it thinking they'll
learn a lot about Japanese myth and history, they'll be wrong because naipone is
its own world, and a lot of that stuff is not very loosely based. Some of it is
very rigidly based to the heavy mixture of invention and actual belief. Well,
for instance, when I finished the two books that you've written so far, I was
kind of proud of myself, and then I said, gosh, I know something about Japanese
legend and history now. I said, if that's what samurais are like, I like them.
For instance, would my impression of the samurais be wrong? Is that pretty close
to what they were? Well, I think there is the general feel of the world created
in those two books is as near as I can figure out as an amateur historian reads
about it incessantly, that that is pretty much what their behavior patterns
were, their thinking patterns, and their society. In general, the samurai were
like that, sure. But what I was thinking in terms... I have come in across some
people who believe that they now know all about Japanese mythology because of
the way it was portrayed in that book. But I changed some things to suit the
world that I was creating, and anybody that wants to know about Japanese history
really should read history books. And people that want to be entertained by
fantasy based on that should read my books and a few other books like that.
Okay, what about some of those monsters like the Tengu or the Bakenmonos or
whatever they would call them? Is there any basis for those? The Tengu and the
Bacamono, and also the Kappa vampire, those are all real. They're taken from
mythology, some of the most off-the-wall aspects of them. Just a second, there's
somebody at the door. Okay. Go away. There's no trouble.
okay I sent them away okay if you're sure it's okay again if you weren't
expecting me I feel kind of bad about this that interrupting you I told them to
drop by in half an hour okay okay anyway I forget what I was saying you were
just finishing up the answer about the Bakamonos and the Tengu they were based
they were definitely based I was thinking of the Kappa which people find
difficult to believe I wasn't putting them on, like a blood-sucking animal that
can be placated with pickles and cucumbers. They think that's a joke, but that's
something that the Japanese really used to believe. I suppose in some outlying
areas they still believe it. Those particular types of creatures are real. There
are some other creatures in that series that aren't real. Okay, did you have any
particular impetus or inspiration behind those volumes? Behind which? Those
volumes, the two in the Tomoe Gozan series. It's hard to say. I suppose part of
it was just my feeling that most of the heroic fantasy written had been pretty
similar, no matter how varied the authors tried to be. They were writing the
same things, which were superficially Anglo-European, either Viking or Camelot
or something like that. Really predictable. Conan. So I wanted to do something
different. I'm not quite sure why. I chose it to be something based loosely on
Japanese ancient history and myth. My stepmother is from Thailand, so I've
always had Asian friends and relatives, but they weren't Japanese. The only
thing I could figure out was my major and participants for really liking the
Japanese legends and history would be cinema. I mean, I've really been very fond
of samurai films, essentially. I started starting out like most people with
Seven Samurai and other films by Akita Kurosawa. And then being lucky to live in
an area that has a very large Asian population. There are two Japanese cinemas
and two Chinese cinemas and two more Chinese cinemas opening soon just to have a
great access to Asian films more so than most people do around the United
States. I go with them every weekend essentially always watching especially
Japanese films. I've lived in San Francisco five years and of course they have a
large Chinese community and I enjoyed going down there and involving myself in
that culture as much as I could. listen about Tomoe you may not want to answer
this because it might get into your third volume but to me she was at least
she's a searcher she's always even though she achieves almost everything she
sets out to achieve she's dissatisfied she keeps looking she's sort of a
maverick and even marriage and so forth wasn't satisfying to her why is she that
way? are you leading her up towards something? Well, I don't know if she's
exactly a searcher, not someone on any sort of quest. She's someone that
changes, though, in the course of the three books, the third and fourth, which
isn't finished yet. In the first book, I try to present her as somewhat naive.
She's very young, and she does essentially what social society expects of her.
until the very end when she feels somewhat sad that she's actually succeeded.
She's succeeded in doing everything that culture expects. It hasn't made her
particularly happy. So in the second book, she's questioning everything that, in
the first book, she took for granted. And yet still goes along with it. She
continues to do everything that society expects of her. She's obedient to her
lord, who is her husband, and does everything she can to help him as she's
supposed to. And everything comes to no good end at all. And so in the third
book, she is definitely outside the society that she was a part of previously.
She's not actively in rebellion against it, but no longer participating in it.
She becomes essentially a wandering nun. And history allows me to continue to
have her be a swordswoman because there were martial nuns that wandered about
Japan. So she can still be an adventurer and a fighter. She's no longer fighting
for the system that, in the first book, everything was aimed at supporting the
system. And in the third book, everything is outside that system. she never
becomes a total rebel though she never actively seeks to destroy the system ok
I'm an English teacher and I can't help seeing symbolism in the first book she
starts off with as a swords woman, as a warrior she starts off with the double
swords, the equal swords and then changes to the single one did you mean
something that she was a divided person, she was incomplete when she had the
double swords and she had to go to a unified method? Well some of that is maybe
subconscious to me only. I'm not sure. I was thinking of, when I did that, I was
thinking in terms of some martial philosophy that that is perhaps mine as a
martial artist personally. And I was hard to put a handle on that. I think these
books are full of symbolism. Some of it conscious and some of it not. I'm not
quite sure that that was a really important element in that symbolism. I'm not
sure. Okay. In the second volume, I wondered why you were so cruel to Azo Hono O
when you had Tomoe just cut off her arm. I thought it would have been a lot more
satisfactory, at least, to maybe just end her life. Why cut off an arm of a
warrior like that and let her live? I had hoped it was implied that even with
one arm, Azo Hanoro might become a very successful woman warrior herself.
Obviously Azo didn't believe that that would happen to her and she felt it was
cruel to be left alive but it was my intention to imply that she was wrong about
that, that she could still become a successful person although she'd lost that
duel and lost one arm and that story is actually followed up. There's an
anthology edited by Susan Schwartz called Hecate's Cauldron. And I have a short
story in there called The Harmonious Battle, and it tells what happened to
Azulhanovo after she lost her arm. And she becomes an extremely, extremely
successful in a way, kind of ironic way. So it's not a tragedy that she
survived.
Okay, good. Did you say you were writing on the third volume now, and if so,
when would it be out? Very difficult to say when it will be out, since I haven't
finished it. The publisher can't really schedule it for publication until I can
give the publisher an idea when I'll be finished with it. It's taking me a lot
longer than I expected to write this one. but the second one I wrote with
relatively no problem. This one, for whatever reason, is just taking me a lot
longer to do. Okay. Why does the subject of, this is probably an awfully general
question, but why does the subject of women as warriors appeal to you so much?
Maybe partly because I study the martial arts myself personally, and maybe
partly because I've in the past been heavily involved with feminism not so much
involved with it now because I'm too involved with my own writing but I think
from my first three novels the two novels about Tomoe and a third novel called
Swordwoman published by Tor everybody's got the impression that I only write
about sword women when in fact I've just struck on some commercial success with
my material about swordswoman. My short stories cover a much wider range of
material. And I think my novels in the future will also. But I suppose I've just
been very, very much interested in heroic fantasy and not so much interested in
writing about men as about women, right now. Although I hope I'm very fair in my
characterizations of men and have some interesting male characters in all my
work. Oh, yeah, I would agree with that. As long as you mention swordswoman, let
me quickly get on to that for a minute. In a sense, I guess that's the alternate
worlds again. Only in this case you have one heroic world and then one
civilized, meaning the earth. Do you have any particular preference when you set
up an extreme dichotomy like that? I'm not quite sure I understand. Well, do you
do you prefer the heroic world that aaron goes to or the civilized one that she
ends up on earth difficult to say i personally would not have wanted to live in
the world where where aaron went but for her personally it's obviously the world
where she where she should have been allowed to stay i'm almost i'm almost
required to write another book about her that that puts her back there too,
permanently. I think it's clear from the context of the story that N's world is
the place where she belongs. That's not a place where I belong. I wouldn't get
along there at all. I thought it was rather an ugly world. I think our world is
perhaps just as ugly, and perhaps N's world is really just in many ways symbolic
of our own world. That's why it's ugly, and that's why this one's ugly. I
wouldn't have made a choice. I couldn't make a choice between the two worlds. I
don't think if End's world really existed, I would probably decide to stay in
our own. I'm more familiar with it. They're both cruel worlds. Okay, was there a
particular impetus behind that book, or did you just come upon an idea that
seemed interesting to you? Oh, there are many impetuses behind that book.
It's a type of book that essentially, gosh, the basic premise can be found in
some of Edgar Rice Burroughs, Swordsman of Mars type novels, where some man of
Earth is transposed to this world of adventure and gets along fine and dandy,
saves princesses with green eyes and things like that. I just thought it was all
such a lot of nonsense and really childish, And I tried to write what would
really happen to someone if that particular fantasy came true for them, if they
liked this kind of literature, wished that thing would happen to them. And it
does. It happens to them. They go there. Essentially, it's just not instant
success at all. She ends up living like a troll under a bridge, a bum unable to
feed herself or take care of herself. She just can't cope with this change at
all. and very slow how she ends up adapting to that world and learning to love
that world. That was probably my main... The main thing I wanted to do was to
show the absurdity of the fantasy as it usually goes and how it might go instead
if it was done more logically. Okay, I did enjoy that novel very much. There are
a lot of things I could ask about it, but I want to make sure we have time to
cover some more things, so I want to move on for just a few minutes to Amazon's,
the Amazon's books. The first one, Amazon's, what was the story behind your
working on that and how you became interested in doing that volume and how it
was set up? First, that, of course, was my first professional work when I ceased
to be an amateur press person. I'd actually started that project as an amateur
press project. I was going to do an anthology and publish it myself of stories
about women warriors. And so I wrote around to some people, some famous people,
some not so famous people, and asked them if they'd write stories. And they
wrote me great stories. They were just excited by the idea. And up to this
point, heroic fantasy stories, this is like 1978 when I first started doing the
project. There were very, very few heroic fantasy stories with women as
protagonists. Everybody thought it was just great and wonderful, and I was
shocked by the response. So I contacted a publisher, just on the off chance that
they might think it was a wonderful idea too, and they did. So it turned out to
be a professional anthology rather than a small press anthology. And then it
went on to win the World Fantasy Award, and I guess that's when I started to be
able to make my living as an editor and a writer, that everybody started paying
attention to my work. Yeah, I guess the responsive readers must have been pretty
good to that work, too, right? Well, I kind of cheated. I put my address on the
last page of the book, and that caused me to get hundreds and hundreds of
letters. For a while I was getting 20 letters a day, mostly from women, but also
from a lot of guys who were just really tickled to read all these stories. There
was a wide range of people. There were super right-wing people. There were super
left-wing people, just people that just liked stories. Everybody didn't matter
what their personal politics, their persuasion, they just really liked those
stories. And I suppose that means it's fairly successful, although sometimes I
wonder if being that apolitical is a good thing. There were a few people that
hated it because they could tell I was a feminist And they thought that
destroyed the worth of the anthology for me to have a feminist perspective
personally. But mostly everybody liked it, and I certainly did. I've never
gotten more letters for anything else I've ever done. And, of course, that kind
of response must have led into the Amazons, too, then. Yes, sir. Many of the
letters weren't sent to my address. They were sent to the publisher who
forwarded them to me. So the publisher also got to see how many people were
interested. But really the publisher didn't decide that there could be a second
volume until it won the World Fantasy Award. And then he instantly was
interested in a second volume. Gosh, I guess I didn't realize awards did that
much for a book. I thought if a book is good, it would sell without an award on
it. Well, it's very difficult with anthologies especially, because they never
sell as well as novels. The best-selling anthology doesn't sell nearly as well
as a pretty good-selling novel.
Some publishers, therefore, won't publish anthologies. There are many publishers
that won't publish anthologies, because they know a novel will do better. Others
feel a commitment to the short story and to the anthology, and if they make all
their money back a little bit of profit, they have to be satisfied. They're not
going to have any moonfall profits from anthology. They tend to make their
decisions unrelated reasons not so related to the commercial aspect. The
commercial aspect is their first consideration. If an anthology loses money,
there certainly won't be a second one like it. If it makes little money, then
they have to have some additional reason for doing a second one like it. In this
case, it was an award. Okay, I'd like to move on to one more area to make sure
we have time to cover this. I teach a science fiction fantasy course here at
Odessa College, and it's going to be total fantasy next semester, and we're
going to read a lot of heroic fantasy. I'm going to have the students read quite
a bit of it, and I'm probably going to use your Tomoe Gozen novel, the first
one. I'd kind of like to get some of your ideas just about fantasy in general. I
want to ask you, why do people read heroic fantasy, and why has it been so
popular recently? Well, I don't think you can generalize why people like it. I
think for some people it has very deep, symbolic meaning in their personal daily
lives. Obviously nobody is really a big tough swordsmaster who can win their way
through any problem. But I think that there is a relationship between these
fantasies and the real world that's not just escapist, in that our daily lives
are pretty dangerous, and we somehow manage to survive and go to the end of our
lives anyway. So there is a... It's kind of, I suppose, burlesque and extreme.
But the heroic fantasy world is very much like our own world, and the dangers we
manage to survive day after day. Also, the amount of death and blood gore that
exists in these kinds of novels is to many people exploitative and grotesque.
It's just they don't like it. They don't know why so many other people do like
it, and they think very badly of that form of literature because it is so
bloody. But to me, I think there's definitely that exploitative aspect of it,
but I think it's also again symbolic of the transience of our own life. At any
moment you could get smashed to smithereens in a car crash. Life can just end
suddenly. And even if you live a long life, 80 years or 60 years is just not a
long time. And the sudden death and the danger that these worlds represent is
very much like our own world. They're very honest in a way. so some people so
there's people at both extremes there's people who like it just because it's
bloody and gory and ugly and they really like that, they really like death and
slaughter and all that gross stuff there's other people that approach it from a
feeling that it is symbolic of the transience of our own life I've talked to
some science fiction authors recently, I guess the last one was Charles
Sheffield and he was talking about fantasy and he said he thought that one of
the reasons it's so popular right now is that we're having sort of hard times
around the world, not just the United States. You have the economy, the wars,
and so forth, and that people just want to escape. And maybe he thought that
might have been one reason it's so popular. Yeah, well, Sheffield, of course, is
a science fiction writer, and science fiction writers in general don't like
fantasy in general. And they dislike especially that it's selling very well
right now. So, I mean, it would be like, that would be like me saying The reason
science fiction is popular is because people don't like people anymore. They
only like machines. They only like computers and war games and other sorts of
things that they can plug into. And I think that's very biased of me to say
that. People like science fiction like it because they do. And to me, science
fiction is entirely escapist and ridiculous. And fantasy is a lot of fun. To
Sheffield, it's the other way around. But I don't think that any particular form
of literature... When I think of it logically, fantasy is not more escapist than
something else. Science fiction is not more escapist than something else. Some
people must read it so that they can forget that the world exists. But I think
most people, when they read it, they're seeing things and learning things about
the world that does exist. Okay, very good. Do you think that either foreign
fantasy or science fiction is easier to write? No, I don't think either one is
easier to write. I think the majority of science fiction is not very good and
was easy to write, and the majority of fantasy is not very good and was easy to
write. But anything that's done well, I don't think it ever comes really quite
as easily. Some people may think it's very difficult to write a good story Like,
there's too much of your personal self that goes into it, too much personal soul
-searching, and too much technique and just sweaty work.
Yeah, I imagine it takes quite a long time to write a novel, especially like the
Tomoe Gozen ones. You mentioned this just a minute ago. You might answer it just
quickly again for me. You made a statement in the Amazons, too, that good
fantasy, I think something to this effect, that there was an element of grimness
about it. It should be grim. Does that relate to your previous answer, that it
tells us something about the real world? Gosh, I guess I don't really believe
that fantasy needs to be grim. I think the stuff that I've read that strikes me
as the most intensely rewarding and the most beautiful is at once ironically
humorous and very dark in nature. And I think most of the classic, epic poems
and things, the moments in them when you're really overwhelmed, that's when
everything is almost at the same time amusing and incredibly sad. That's my
personal feeling, that the best fantasy has an element of grimness to it, an
element of ironic evil.
But I'm sure there's some white little fairy stories that have nothing but
sweetness to them that are also good literature. you said you started out with
fairy tales years ago I guess you would maintain there's an obvious relationship
between fantasy and fairy folk tales or folklore isn't there in most cases I
think that one is the direct outgrowth of the other but heroic fantasy probably
has its most obvious roots in ancient epics from Gilgamesh or Jason and the
Argonauts, anything like that, it's probably the most obvious roots. But in the
nature of storytelling in prose form, it's more related to the fairy tale.
If you had to recommend some fantasy to somebody who'd never read it, or let me
do it this way, what are your personal favorites in the field of fantasy. Do you
have any books that you especially think are extremely good? Well, it's always
hard to say that, of course. I'm not really well-read in the field, I must say,
first, because I spend most of my reading time reading non-fiction. But of what
I have read, there are some things that I think are tremendous that are new. One
of the most tremendous books I've seen recently is a book called Death's Master
by Tanith Lee. And I just think that's an awfully good book. It's almost too good
to be written in the current decade. And I think the work of Phyllis Ann Carr,
who's another writer, is fairly good. Perhaps I think that only because it's
fairly similar to my own. And I, of course, think that what I do is fairly good.
And I can't really think of anything else I would overtly recommend. Usually
when people ask me what they should read if they've never read any fantasy, I
usually tell them to read history books instead. There's a lot more happening in
a history book. There's a lot more interesting characters in history than you'd
find in, even the best fantasy. so you have to like fantasy to read it rather
than read it because it's going to be inherently good very few things that are
inherently good do you think there have been any movies that have done a decent
job of fantasy well i am obviously a cinema fan i do i write i do write
criticism of films for publication I don't I think there are some films that
I've enjoyed an awful lot I don't think there are any good ones if you were
going to base them on the same level that you would base a work of literature
most recently there is a really badly acted it's so badly acted it's called
Beastmaster it's just really badly acted and yet it's the first one I felt like
almost captured the spirit of heroic fantasy in that it was not sadomasochistic
and it was not grotesque. It was very adventurous. It was a very pleasant movie.
I enjoyed it. But it certainly is no classic. Most of the stuff that's been done
recently, like Conan the Barbarian, is awful. It's just awful. It's spiritually
awful. It's bad as cinema. It's bad as heroic fantasy. It's just bad. It
represents what is the worst and least appealing about the heroic fantasy genre.
And I'm really sad to see that being picked out from the genre and being fed to
the masses as what heroic fantasy is about. Did you see Dragon Slayer? Yes, I
did. I didn't think much of it as a movie. It had a lot higher technical value
than most of the other heroic fantasy films. It was a well-made film visually
and it didn't look like a bunch of amateurs threw it together. I think it was
very effective. It was too full of cliché.
Okay, you mentioned this earlier in some of your answers, but could you sort of
summarize it for me? The kind of work you have planned for your future, like
what you're writing now and what kind of plans you might have for things that
you're going to publish well of course I have to finish off the saga of
Tomoe Gozen, um but when I'm finished with that book I'm also working on a book
that I hope to finish almost simultaneously that remains to be seen which is set
in Southeast Asia kind of set in a mythological uh Cambodia or Legitua whatever
it's called now and uh it's essentially an ancient love story full of magic has
very little in the way of violence. Quite the opposite about people who come to
expect me to write. And it's hard to say what I'll write after that, because
there's always more things in mind than anybody can conceivably do in a
lifetime. What about another anthology? Well, there is another anthology coming
soon. I hope in the first quarter of 1983 an anthology called Heroic Vision to
be published by Ace Books which is now a subsidiary Berkley Books I guess and I
think that's the best of my three anthologies so far it's the most varied it has
some of the same kind of material that appeared in Amazons and Amazons 2 but it
is a wider range of heroic fantasy very experimental material in there which
heroic fantasy has not been well known for experimental literature, but I think
this time there will be some of that. And if it's a successful anthology, it
will become an annual. If it's not commercially successful, then of course it
will be the only one. I have no other anthology projects in mind right now
because I have so much to finish in terms of novels. Yeah, listen, this is
probably the problem. We're probably using up too much of your time, and I
imagine your guest is going to be back pretty soon. Is there anything else? I
guess we've got enough material for about probably a week's worth. The show is
only five minutes per day. It's on every day for five minutes, so we sort of
chop an interview up into a five-minute segment, so we've got enough here for a
whole week's worth. But is there anything else, any area you'd like to talk
about briefly before the tape runs out? I wish I could say something exceedingly
wise, that I really can't think of anything on my own right now. Okay, that's
fine. I'm very satisfied with what we've got. Listen, as I said, I'm setting up
a fantasy class for our spring semester out here, and we might very well teach
Tamoy Gozan. If we did that, and we contacted you, would it be possible for you
to... Sometimes what we do when we teach science fiction or fantasy is have an
author... We just call up the author, and we have a speaker for an arrangement
here, and the students can just ask questions of the author about the book would
you be amenable to that sure that would be exciting ok then we can get in touch
with you if that works out and listen we have about oh maybe six or eight weeks
lag time before these shows get on the air at least so when we edit them and
when they're done we will send you copies obviously ok that would be nice and I
appreciate your time very much and I do admire your work and I hope you keep
coming out with it ok I hope that If you use one of my books, I hope you use it,
the Golden Naginata. Instead of Tomoe? Yeah. But that would mean they have to
read Tomoe first to get the background. Maybe they wouldn't have time to do all
that, maybe. If you feel that's true, I think they will stand alone. As war can
be read backwards, I don't think they're a tandem at each other. You might be
right. Okay, we could maybe Xerox that first part where you explain about
Naipon. That was pretty clear in Tomoe, but it wasn't so clear in Naginata. I
had to fight with my editor to leave it off. My editor wanted to reprint that
little introduction. I disagree, but you obviously would have agreed with her.
Well, I'm speaking from the point of view of some uncultured freshmen. They may
not catch enough of it. Well, if you decide to use in my books, I will be
extremely flattered. I just happen to be a little more fond of the second one,
and I think it has fewer clumsy passages. Okay I'll keep that in mind Listen and
we thank you very much for your time and we will send you those tapes when
they're done and then perhaps we'd be in touch with you next semester to see if
you could talk to the class Thank you very much Bye bye